CSS Text:

Text inside an element is laid out inside the element's content box. It starts at the top left of the content area (or the top right, in the case of RTL language content), and flows towards the end of the line. Once it reaches the end, it goes down to the next line and continues, then the next line, until all the content has been placed in the box. Text content effectively behaves like a series of inline elements, being laid out on lines adjacent to one another, and not creating line breaks until the end of the line is reached, or unless you force a line break manually using the <br> element.


The CSS properties used to style text generally fall into two categories, which we'll look at separately in this article:

    Font styles: Properties that affect the font that is applied to the text, affecting what font is applied, how big it is, whether it is bold, italic, etc.

    Text layout styles: Properties that affect the spacing and other layout features of the text, allowing manipulation of, for example, the space between lines and letters, and how the text is aligned within the content box.

    # Can modify the subsections of the text using :
    ==> <span>
    ==> text-specfic psudo elements
    	## 	::first-letter
    	##	::first-line
    	##	::selection : color, background, outline, cursor



Font Style Properties:

#font-color: Used to set the color of the text & Line color(if text-decoration is used)

#font-family: used to set a different font on the text.

==> Web safe fonts:

Speaking of font availability, there are only a certain number of fonts that are generally available across all systems, and can therefore be used without much worry. These are the so-called web safe fonts.

http://www.cssfontstack.com/

#Font-stacks:

Since you can't guarantee the availability of the fonts you want to use on your webpages, you can supply a font stack so that the browser has multiple fonts it can choose from. This simply involves a font-family value consisting of multiple font names separated by commas,


#font-size: used to set the size of the font

px
ems: 1em = font size of the parent element
rems: 1rem = font size of the root element

text-transform:

none, uppercase, lowercase, capitalize

#text-decoration:
underline, overline, line-through

text-decoration-line
text-decoration-color
text-decoration-style

shorthand order of text-decoration:line color style


#text drop shadow: apply drop-shadows to the text
text-shadow:4px 4px 3px red;

The four properties are as follows:

    The horizontal offset of the shadow from the original text — this can take most available CSS length and size units, but you'll most comonly use px. This value has to be included.
    The vertical offset of the shadow from the original text; behaves basically just like the horizontal offset, except that it moves the shadow up/down, not left/right. This value has to be included.
    The blur radius — a higher value means the shadow is dispersed more widely. If this value is not included, it defaults to 0, which means no blur. This can take most available CSS length and size units.
    The base color of the shadow, which can take any CSS color unit. If not included, it defaults to black.


positive values == right, down
negative-value ==	left, up


Text layout properties:

#text-align: left, right, center, justify


#line-height: The line-height property sets the height of each line of text — this can take most length and size units, but can also take a unitless value, which acts as a multiplier and is generally considered the best option — the font-size is multiplied to get the line-height. Body text generally looks nicer and is easier to read when the lines are spaced apart; the recommended line height is around 1.5–2 (double spaced.) So to set our lines of text to 1.5 times the height of the font, you'd use this:


#letter-spacing
#word-spacing
#text-indent: used to set the spacing of the first line of the content of the element.


Font Shorthand:

Many font properties can also be set through the shorthand property font. These are written in the following order:  font-style, font-variant, font-weight, font-stretch, font-size, line-height, and font-family.

Among all those properties, only font-size and font-family are required when using the font shorthand property.

A forward slash has to be put in between the font-size and line-height properties.